---
type: daily-notes
tags:
  - daily-notes
date: 2025-02-24
---
# Today's Task
## Reoccurring Tasks
```tasks
not done
filter by function task.originalMarkdown.includes('🔁')
```

## Not done
```tasks
not done
filter by function !task.originalMarkdown.includes('🔁')
tags do not include #jobapps 
```


---
# [[Black Cape]] - 101 Meeting
## Ice Breakers
- [[Mike Santamaria]] - worked in BC since the begin and worked with others for a while.
- [[Derek Woodley]] - supports helping with HR and wears many hats.
- [[Brian Poe]] - COO and wears many hats.
- [[Bobbi Gilbert]] - supports with HR and the security program. 3.5 years in BC and was in the Air Force.
	- lives in Montana
- [[Chris Matthews]] - started at Lockheed, still on active duty and working
- [[Ismael Montecel]] - tech director
## Knowledge Repos
- slack, confluence, google drive
## [[Black Cape]] Overview
[[Derek Woodley]] is the BC historian. BC started from an idea and began in 2019.
- we delivery to our clients, we are a service base model and with some software product (platform)
- Rubicon - small business research for the gov't with R&D activities.
- we do data engineering with AI/ML and we are pursuing because of customer needs.
- we have a lot of awards and they care about the atmosphere. Do the surveys

[[Mike Santamaria]] - tech stack gives a unique solution to our customers with custom software.
- number of employees and cleared engineers - most of people are cleared to closely align with gov't customers
- 165 total, 150 clear engineers - we are software engineer company. Everyone wears many different hats to deliver our products

[[Brian Poe]] - we are focused on great engineers and adding to the talent pool.
- [[Chris Matthews]] helping out in SOCOM in Tampa, Florida.
- getting closer to the client and make mission critical products is our motivation
## Projects
The confluence link is one liner project overviews. Reach out to the leads to understand more.
- [[Mike Santamaria]] is going overview on an example project to understand the base.
- Working on ML and AI needs all of the engineers working together to share ideas and knowledge
## Timesheets
Use the manual function.
- BC uses quickbooks, but projects use a separate system that you will fill out.
- Peraton is the sub-contract system that you will fill out

More guidance will come, but reach out to [[Mike Santamaria]] for more info.
## PTO
it is accrued, and it is shown in Gusto.
- no process, just clearly communicating that to your team
- look at the calendar how people do OOO
## Expenses
Use expense page and create an account to create a receipt.
- parking is an expense
- if you need equipment, reach out to [[Mike Santamaria]]
- send out the reimbursement on Tuesday EOB for quick turn around.
- for hybrid parking, just use a daily log entry.
## Health Benefits
Reach out to [[Bobbi Gilbert]] or HR email serve for any questions
## Guideline (401K)
Use your personal email account.
- no action is 5% contribution.
## [[Black Cape]] IT
There is no IT dept, we are all helping each other to get things set up
- use the Slack channel

"Game knows game" - BC internet
## Mac Setup
Use Filevault encryption
- use your best judgement for what you use
## Gitlab and Docker
Make sure you are on Team Tier for Docker Desktop
## Arlington Office
8am-5pm for elevator access (outside of that time, you can still get out or get down)
Industrious is the co-working space that we use. Food and drinks are free

Booking conference rooms are in other buildings
- meetings are in google meets (stand ups too)
- slack huddles are for quick items
## Email Aliases
See the email aliases and groups for your questions
- used as a fail safe for communicate
- use groups instead of direct messages
## Career Advancement
Mentors will not be on your project team for perspective.
- fill out the form
## Class
Internal sharing weekly learning sessions to stay connected
- study group for kubernetes cert
- usually buy udemy course and go through checkpoints together
- goal is to get teams to talk together and share the innovation
## Security
You need to fill out forms that [[Derek Woodley]] had sent

**Complete action items on 101 page - Day 1 and Week 1**

---
# [[OMS-MARS]] 101
Meeting with [[Sereno Dominguez]]

## Contract side of things
OMS supports DIA, work was done under APM and it will go under TALOS
- timesheets will reflect that, APM and TALOS
- these will be separate more
## General Info
OMS is a microservice, but they are moving away from that
## What is OMS?
the goal is for a central storage for information like inventory and unit locations
- backend for storage "core"
- UI tools which is "chronicle"
- "sensemaking" for data processing
- mission integration
## Teams and members
There is a mobilization team that is outside of the org chart
Everyone is basically moving to TALOS
- things are in flux, I will be helping with *data generation with Melissa Master*
## What sets us apart?
1. good person
2. good teammate
3. goo engineer

We are not perfect in all 3, but we will blend all 3.
## 9/11 Commission Report
information is siloed, but you want to be able to search across all
## 1. Silos
Do you want time dominant or content dominant? Intelligence is siloed
## 2. Fusion
Each dept is siloed with no across access of data from other agencies. OMS is there to fuse everyone together for the information.
## 3. Foundational Intelligence
quality control is gate kept to help with access curators

The data starts out simply like equipment and data attached with that quality numbers.
- we need up to date info with precision
- the data flow should not be updated on a spreadsheet, but tied that information to prevent silos.
## Logistics / Asks & Demands
- take care of each other
- stay organized
- get involved and don't back seat drive
## Getting started
### short term
- see slide 37, need to great a google app password
- follow gitea instructions (getting started doc)
### long term
- get on the contract and receive clearances
- get a CAC to get access to NIPR (dev environment with official builds)
- JWICS to get a green badge
## Timesheets
- deltek and peraton timesheets to track project times
- udpates will come with this
- use BC quickbooks (use overhead with a comment)
- all onboarding goes overhead
- 101 OMS will be charged to OMS, but use overhead if you don't have those charge codes

**Melissa will reach out for tasks**

Deltek and quickbooks log daily, submit peraton timesheets each week
## Applications and Tech
- gitea for version control
- gitlab for ticket tracking
- deployments through tex or rancher
- data storage on gdrive "OMS MARS"

---
# Tasks for tomorrow
- [ ] Black Cape GitLab **Actions:**
	-  ==Create a public/private ==keypair without a passphrase
	-  `ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 2048 -C "yourname@blackcape.io"`
	-  ==Add your public key to your GitLab profile==: [https://gitlab.blackcape.dev/-/profile/keys](https://gitlab.blackcape.dev/-/profile/keys "https://gitlab.blackcape.dev/-/profile/keys")
	-  Add a GPG key following these instructions:
	-  Make sure to set git config user.name and user.email
			`git config --global user.name "<your name>"` 
			`git config --global user.email "<your email>"`